---
layout: home
title: "About me"
---

I am a Ph. D. student of applied economics at the University of Illinois. I am interested in studying Food Systems and their implications for environment and health with a focus in the NAFTA (now USMCA) region. I strive to study empirical issues from a structural modelling approach to inform public policy. I work with large datasets of climatological, land use and economic indicators regarding U.S. farmers' lands. I am also experienced in estimation of price and income elasticities using censored AIDS and QUAIDS, counterfactual simulations using general equilibrium models of trade and input-output structural decomposition analyses with regional and multi-regional databases.

### My paper *Who benefits from local agriculture?* will be presented at the AAEA 2021 

Paper with prof. [William Ridley](https://ace.illinois.edu/directory/wridley) and prof. [Sandy Dall'Erba](https://ace.illinois.edu/directory/dallerba)

Advances in agricultural production and specialization have allowed some U.S. states to become net food exporters, while others have become net importers. Specialization requires using farming practices that the general public perceived as unhealthy and detrimental to the environment but necessary to achieve high output levels with limited resources; so, consumers' advocacy to shift food production back to local markets is gaining momentum. However, evidence suggests that allowing markets to rely on a few food production sources posits concerns about food vulnerability to droughts and floods. Improvements in the efficiency of food supply chains that reduce the cost of trade have been proposed to mitigate welfare losses caused by extreme weather events. I analyze consumers' food expenditure under these two opposing policy recommendations. I employ a Ricardian general equilibrium model for the U.S. domestic market of crops and find that welfare gains are higher under reduced costs of trade than under improved local agricultural productivity. The divergence in gains between each policy's welfare effects is driven by the benefits to net importers of food with low levels of agricultural production. Moreover, my results indicate that U.S. resilience against weather shocks is higher under the enhanced efficiency of food supply chains than under improved local agricultural productivity. In contrast to previous studies, my Ricardian application rules out non-market factors present in international trade studies. I present evidence that the U.S. market for crops is more suitable for this type of analysis than the international setting.

