index.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: "About me"
---

It will be updated soon.

I am a Ph. D. candidate in applied economics at the University of Illinois. I am interested in studying Food Systems and their implications for the environment and health with a focus on the NAFTA (now USMCA) region. I strive to study empirical issues from a structural modeling approach to inform public policy. I work with large datasets of climatological, land use, and economic indicators regarding U.S. farmers’ lands. I am also experienced in the estimation of price and income elasticities using censored AIDS and QUAIDS, counterfactual simulations using general equilibrium models of trade, and input-output structural decomposition analyses with regional and multi-regional databases.

### I will be attending NARSC 2021 Denver, Colorado to present my manuscript *Revisiting the impact of climate change on agriculture through spatially-varying and place-tailored Ricardian estimates*

Paper with [Sandy Dall'Erba](https://ace.illinois.edu/directory/dallerba), [Chang Cai](https://ace.illinois.edu/directory/ccai5) and [A. Stewart Fotheringham](https://sgsup.asu.edu/stewart-fotheringham).

The Ricardian framework has been widely used to study the impact of climate change on agriculture across the world due to its relatively simple implementation: A reduced-form hedonic specification to calibrate such an impact over a single cross-section of data. The role of the spatial heterogeneity i.e., the impact of climate is space-dependent, is well-accepted, but the literature struggle to reach an agreement on how to model it. A recent study finds that different group-memberships found in the literature i.e., a researcher's ex-ante assumption to classify spatial-units based on how they interact with climate, lead to a wide range of forecasted impacts \citep{caidall21groups}. This paper employs the Multiscale Geographically-Weighted-Regression (MGWR) to avoid setting an a priori definition of heterogeneity and to generate county-specific marginal effects of climate change impacts. We construct an updated dataset found in \citet{mendelsohn1994impact}, employ our estimator choice and compare our results with those found in different hedonic studies that employ group-memberships in U.S. agriculture. Our cross-validation exercise indicate that our MGWR approach has a higher predictive power than studies that cluster spatial units, suggesting that climate damage forecast of agriculture can improve by the employmet of the MGWR.

Commit message:

Jan 4: Adding ERS job and new personal website design.

index.md, after:

---
layout: home
title: "About me"
---

I am an applied microeconomist studying food systems and their implications for the environment and human health. I strive to study empirical issues from a structural modeling approach to inform public policy. I constantly research how new methodologies can answer research questions, and currently I am working with Bayesian econometrics and gravity trade model applications on domestic trade. A personal interest of me is food insecurity in México and the U.S.

I work as a Research Agricultural Economist at the USDA Economic Research Service. I finished my Ph.D. in Applied and Agricultural Economics at the University of Illinois in December 2021. Before that, I was an intern at the USDA Rural Development and later at NASS.

Outside economics, I am geo-politics nerd (including non-fictional regions) who enjoys hiking and travel, and a podcast listener who walks from 4pm to 5pm everyday. In Winters, I hibernate, but mostly I remote-work and play videogames. Currently reading John Green's *The Anthropocene Reviewed: Essays on a Human-Centered Planet*.
#### I am organizing a track session on *Identification in Demand Estimations* for the AAEA 2022 in Anaheim, CA, where I will be presenting my manuscript *The effects of taxing sugary soft beverages in México: A censored QUAI demand system approach*.


Paper with [Diansheng Dong](https://www.ers.usda.gov/authors/ers-staff-directory/diansheng-dong/).

##### Abstract

The theoretical foundations and procedures to estimate demand systems to recover income- and price-elasticities have long been established; however, some streams of the literature do not account for all of the empirical implications of their datasets, leading to inconclusive results. The analysis of sin taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages (SSB) is an exemplary case that has carried controversy in Latin-American countries. In México, for instance, the federal government imposed a 20% price hike on SSB to curb its obesity epidemic in 2014, but obesity has continued increasing. This manuscript revisits the demand estimation applications aim to study the effectiveness of the sin tax with a censored Quadratic Almost Ideal Demand (QUAID) system. Previous studies find that SSB is an elastic good (a 10% price increase is associated with a greater than 10% reduction in quantity) with an own-price elasticity between -1.11 and -1.61. By employing our rigorous estimation procedure, our study finds that SSB is an inelastic good with an own-price elasticity between -0.83 and -0.98. Our results suggest that SSB taxes are not as effective as previous research indicates, explaining the gap between actual obesity rates and expected obesity rates after the sin tax was imposed in México.
