---
layout: home
title: "Current Research"
---

# These are the chapters of my thesis to be proposed in late September

### The effects of taxing sugary soft beverages in Mexico: A censored QUAI demand system  approach

Paper with with [Diansheng Dong](https://www.ers.usda.gov/authors/ers-staff-directory/diansheng-dong/).

The theoretical foundations and procedures to estimate demand systems to recover income- and price-elasticities have long been established; however, some streams of the literature do not account for all of the empirical implications of their datasets, leading to inconclusive results. The analysis of sin taxes on sugary soft beverages (SSB) is an exemplary case that has carried controversy in Latin-American countries. In Mexico, for instance, the federal government imposed a 20% price hike on SSB to curb its obesity epidemic in 2014, but obesity has continued increasing. This manuscript revisits the demand estimation applications aim to study the effectiveness of the sin tax with a censored Quadratic Almost Ideal Demand (QUAID) system. Previous studies find that SSB is an elastic good (a 10% price increase is associated with a greater than 10% reduction in quantity) with an own-price elasticity between -1.11 and -1.61, but our study finds that SSB is an inelastic good (a 10% price increase is associated with a 9.5% decrease in quantity). Our results suggest that SSB taxes are not as effective as previous research indicates, explaining the gap between actual obesity rates and expected obesity rates after the sin tax was imposed in Mexico.
### My job market paper's title *A model of U.S. domestic crop trade to study state's food vulnerability to supply chain disruptions*

Paper with [William Ridley](https://ace.illinois.edu/directory/wridley) and [Sandy Dall'Erba](https://ace.illinois.edu/directory/dallerba).

This manuscript expands a Ricardian trade general equilibrium model to assess the current U.S. domestic food system vulnerabilities to supply chain disruptions. Our model incorporates assumptions about the heterogeneity of farmers' production and recognizes food processing plants as the main consumer of farmers' crops, isolating their substitution effect. In addition, we construct a ranking of U.S. states' relative comparative advantage in the domestic market for crops, which is decomposed into an expenditure and a productivity terms. Our ranking sheds light on the determinants of the initial composition of U.S. state's consumption sources and how they affect welfare losses in our food vulnerability simulations. We find that the distribution of welfare losses caused by disruptions in the existing supply chains depends on a state's ability to substitute imports for domestic production. In turn, a state's ability to substitute imports for domestic production is determined by its comparative advantage; the state's agricultural capacity adjusted by its operating expenses per harvested acre. We conduct an additional simulation to investigate the ability of the existing food supply chain to mitigate welfare losses from events that affect each states' ability to produce crops. 

### Revisiting the impact of climate change on agriculture through spatially-varying and place-tailored Ricardian estimates

Paper with [Sandy Dall'Erba](https://ace.illinois.edu/directory/dallerba), [Chang Cai](https://ace.illinois.edu/directory/ccai5) and [A. Stewart Fotheringham](https://sgsup.asu.edu/stewart-fotheringham).

The Ricardian framework has been widely used to study the impact of climate change on agriculture across US counties over the past few decades. While the spatial heterogeneity of climate change is well-accepted, the literature struggles to reach an agreement on how to model it, hence leading to a wide range of forecasted impacts. This paper employs Multiscale Geographically-Weighted-Regression (MGWR) to avoid setting an a priori definition of heterogeneity and to generate county-specific marginal effects of climate change impacts. We start with a cross-validation exercise that demonstrates the superiority of MGWR over previous specifications. The local parameter estimates derived from MGWR are then used to forecast changes in farmland value due to expected 2038-2070 climate conditions. Results reveal an expected national average loss in farmland value that is substantially larger than the losses predicted in previous studies. We attribute the divergence to unspecified heterogeneity that leads to a downward bias in farmland price forecasts. While previous studies find a large number of counties benefiting from climate change, our results indicate that only a total of 24 counties – mostly in Texas - will experience gains. Our place-specific marginal effects will help guide the development of place-tailored mitigation and adaptation strategies to climate change.

